So let's take a quick look at my solution for this exercise.
Remember, you can use all of your own values here just as long as they are actually
valid values for the different augmentation techniques,
so you don't need to match to my solution exactly.
So I'm going to actually reuse a little bit of code from earlier,
and I'll come up here and just copy
my image generation and train data generation from earlier.
So that way, train data gen is already using this, it will be pretty easy.
So I will want my re-scaling to stay the same,
and I'm actually going to copy in these to my function,
so that way I can add them in pretty easily here.
So I have these in here and I'm just going to set a few different ranges here.
So rotation again is an angle,
so I'll set that as a range of 40 degrees.
Width shift range is the overall percentage of the width to shift left or right,
so I'm going to put that as 0.2 for about 20 percent,
and same thing with height shift range.
Anything more than that,
you're running the risk that too much of the image is
off-screen and the neural network won't have any idea what it actually is.
I think 20 percent is about reasonable for shear,
which is going to crop off the side or zooming as well.
Again, similarly to the earlier ones,
it's just too much of a chance that you're not going to be able to
see the information that's in the image if you go much more than that.
Horizontal flip is actually a Boolean value,
so I'll set that to true,
and then fill mode,
I'm going to set that to nearest.
Again, you can check out the documentation
for what these are if you're unsure as far as fill mode
goes and you can also check out
the documentation for other values you can put in for each of these.
So if we go ahead and plot this out,
we can now see multiple different images.
Again, this is just a single dog image that's been put in to our neural net as an input,
but it clearly varies quite a bit between the different flipping,
the zooms, rotations, etc.
So our network is going to be able to generalize much better than it did before.
Here's a few further examples as well.
As you can see here, this would be a potential image
where I think that there might have been too much augmentation applied.
I'm guessing this is probably a cat,
since these other images right here are cats,
but I can't really tell.
Maybe this is the ear,
that looks a little bit more like a cat ear,
but this is going to be pretty tough to train on.
Generally, we only applied data augmentation to our train data.
So for a validation set,
we only need to perform the normalization on the pixel values.
However, we're still going to need batch size,
target size, and the class mode for our flow from directory method.
For the validation set, remember,
there is no need really to shuffle the validation set.
So here, let's go ahead and build a model that can
classify the images in our dogs verses cats dataset.
It's going to again be a fairly basic model.
We're just going to use a lot of fully connected layers,
you can see the number of nodes here.
This is maybe a little overly large for our task here,
but we'll go ahead and do this with
our input shape and add dropout in-between each fully connected layer.
At the end here, we'll add a fully connected layer with two outputs for our two classes,
dog and cat, as well as a softmax activation.
So since we're on a CPU here,
again, this is going to take a little bit,
as you can see, it took about two minutes on that first epoch to train.
I'm going to train it for about 10 and we're going to see what the accuracy comes out to.
Now for yourself, as an optional challenge,
you can attempt to build a network that can classify the dogs verses cats dataset.
Now, while it's training here,
we can't see it exactly yet,
but it's actually only going to get somewhere around 50 percent accuracy,
which obviously is not very good,
that's basically just random guessing.
If it learned that everything was a dog,
even though it's dogs and cats,
it could get 50 percent accuracy.
Now this is a lot more complicated than what we did
before with MNIST and Fashion-MNIST datasets.
You probably won't actually get it to work with a fully connected network,
no matter how deep you make it.
Since they have three color channels and a resolution
higher than the 28-by-28 images from before,
it's probably not going to work.
So in this next part,
I'll show you how to use a pre-trained network
to build a model that can actually solve this problem,
and even show you what GPU acceleration does to speed up our training.